docs/io.cozy.bank.md, before:

[Table of contents](README.md#table-of-contents)

# Cozy Bank doctypes

Cozy can stores and manipulate bank related datas, distributed across several doctypes.

## `io.cozy.bank.settings`

This doctype store informations about Bank application settings. There is only one document, by default:

```
{
  notifications: {
    amountMax: {
      enable: false,
      value: 30
    }
  }
}
```

## `io.cozy.bank.accounts`

This doctypes stores informations about a Bank account:

- `label`: {string} - The bank account label (e.g. _John Doe Bank Account_)
- `institutionLabel`: {string} - The financial institution name the bank account belongs to
- `balance`: {number} - The current account balance
- `type`: {string} - The account type in the list `['none', 'bank', 'cash', 'asset', 'credit card', 'liability']`
- `number`: {string} - The bank account number in its institution
- `iban`: {string} - The bank account international identifier
- `serviceID`: {number} - In case of external service used to import transactions, this key can stores the service's account ID; can be `undefined` is the account isn't managed by any external service
- `vendorId`: {string} - Id of the bank account on the vendor side
- `loan`: {Object} - Specific properties for loan accounts. Will be undefined for all other account types
  - `contactName`: {string} - The name of the contact in the credit institution
  - `totalAmount`: {number} - The total amount of the loan
  - `availableAmount`: {number} - The currently available amount
  - `usedAmount`: {number} - The amount already used
  - `subscriptionDate`: {date} - The date on which the loan has been subscribed
  - `maturityDate`: {date} - The end date of the loan
  - `nextPaymentAmount`: {number} - The amount of the next payment
  - `nextPaymentDate`: {date} - The date of the next payment
  - `rate`: {number} - The loan rate (between 0 and 100)
  - `nbPaymentsLeft`: {number} - The number of remaining payments
  - `nbPaymentsDone`: {number} - The number of payments made
  - `nbPaymentsTotal`: {number} - The total number of payments
  - `lastPaymentAmount`: {number} - The amount of the last payment
  - `lastPaymentDate`: {date} - The date of the last payment
  - `accountLabel`: {string} - The loan account label
  - `insuranceLabel`: {string} - The insurance label
  - `duration`: {number} - The loan duration in months
- `relationships`: {Object} - Relationships to other documents
  - `connection`: {`HasOne<io.cozy.accounts>`} The account used to retrieve this document. This is used by Harvest to be able to edit an `io.cozy.bank.accounts`
    through the "Configuration" tab of an `io.cozy.accounts`.
  - `checkingsAccount`: {`HasOne<io.cozy.bank.accounts>`} - In case of a credit card account, links to the bankaccount on which all the transactions will be debited
     at the end of the month
  - `owners`: {`HasMany<io.cozy.contacts>`} - List of owners for this account

### Example

```
{
  "_id": "2165d9a310deadbeeffc08d54c45102",
  "balance": 1337.73,
  "institutionLabel": "Société Générale (Particuliers)",
  "label": "Livret Dévelop. Durable (x1337)",
  "linxoId": "123456",
  "metadata": {
    "version": 1
  },
  "number": "03791 00048085818",
  "shortLabel": "Livret Dévelop. Durable",
  "type": "Savings",
  "relationships": {
    "connection": {
      "_id": "2165d9a310deadbeeffc08d54c45404",
      "_type": "io.cozy.accounts"
    }
  }
}
```

## `io.cozy.bank.accounts.stats`

This doctype stores aggregated data about bank accounts:

- `periodStart`: {date} - The start of the reference period
- `periodEnd`: {date} - The end of the reference period
- `income`: {number} - The average income on the reference period
- `additionalIncome`: {number} - The average additional income on the reference period
- `mortgage`: {number} - The average mortgage expense on the reference period
- `loans`: {number} - The average total loans expense on the reference period
- `fixedCharges`: {number} - The average fixed charges on the reference period
- `currency`: {string} - A 3 uppercased chars defining the currecny used for the transaction as stated in [ISO4217](https://www.currency-iso.org/en/home/tables/table-a1.html)

### Relationships

- `account`: {object} - The associated account

### Example

```
{
  "_id": "f1aacd3254509687c07e48279b42cd50",
  "periodStart": "2019-03-01T00:00:00",
  "periodEnd": "2019-06-30T23:59:59",
  "income": 2345.67,
  "additionalIncome": 123.45,
  "mortgage": 567.89,
  "loans": 678.9,
  "fixedCharges": 234.56,
  "currency": "EUR",
  "relationships": {
    "account": {
      "data": {
        "_id": "f1aacd3254509687c07e48279b42f3de",
        "_type": "io.cozy.bank.accounts"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## `io.cozy.bank.operations`

This doctype stors informations about a bank transaction:

- `label`: {string} - The label describing the transaction
- `type`: {string} - A type in the list : `['none', 'credit card', 'cash', 'check', 'transfer', 'internal transfer', 'debit card', 'deposit', 'financial fee', 'direct debit']`
- `date`: {date} - The debit/credit date of the transaction on which the account is debited/credited. Is different from the `realizationDate` with deferred debit cards
- `realisationDate`: {date} - The realization date of the transaction on which the operation really occured
- `applicationDate`: {string} - The date the transaction is affected to, after a manual modification
- `dateOperation`: {date} - The date the transaction is registered in the account
- `dateImport`: {date} - The date the transaction is imported (can differ of the date of creation of the document as the import can be done by an external service)
- `amount`: {number} - The amount of the transaction
- `currency`: {string} - A 3 uppercased chars defining the currecny used for the transaction as stated in [ISO4217](https://www.currency-iso.org/en/home/tables/table-a1.html)
- `automaticCategoryId`: {string} - A category that apply to the transaction and is automatically calculated. This property should be hydrated by the connector. See the « categories » section below to know more about categories
- `manualCategoryId`: {string} - A category that apply to the transaction and is manually selected by the user
- `cozyCategoryId`: {string} - A category found by Cozy
- `cozyCategoryProba`: {number} - The probability of Cozy category
- `localCategoryId`: {string} - A category found by Cozy, based on the user recategorization habits
- `localCategoryProba`: {number} - The probability of local category
- `account`: {identifier} - The related account id the transaction belongs to
- `bills`: {array[<io.cozy.bills._id>]} - List of bills id.
- `reimbursements`: {array[<io.cozy.bills._id>]} - List of bills id.
- `creditOperations`: {array[<io.cozy.bank.operations._id>]} - List of credit operations id
- `debitOperations`: {array[<io.cozy.bank.operations._id>]} - List of debit operations id
- `parent`: {\_id} - In case of a split transaction, the one refers the global transaction the split one belongs to
- `vendorId`: {string} - Id of the transaction on the vendor side
- `vendorAccountId`: {string} - Id of the transaction's account on the vendor side

For the dates, any string or integer which can be interpreted by new Date(date) is possible but the
best the result of Date.toString() -> like 'Fri Mar 09 2018 19:04:40 GMT+0100 (CET)' which contains
the time zones.

### Categories

There are up to four categories that can be assigned to a `io.cozy.bank.operations` document. But there is only one that a connector have to set when retrieving the transactions from a bank: `automaticCategoryId`. This property have to be one of the categories ID listed [here](https://github.com/cozy/cozy-banks/blob/master/src/ducks/categories/tree.json). If you want to see more human labels, you can check the translations of each label in [english](https://github.com/cozy/cozy-banks/blob/master/src/locales/en.json) or [french](https://github.com/cozy/cozy-banks/blob/master/src/locales/fr.json).

Other category properties are to be set by other sources: the user or Cozy Banks services.

### Example

```
{
  "_id": "f0426fdeadbeef55755ee7f4d6555",
  "account": "15fb6402426bcdeadbeeffd5f4587bb",
  "amount": 10,
  "automaticCategoryId": "400110",
  "currency": "EUR",
  "date": "2017-09-22 00:00:00+01:00",
  "dateOperation": null,
  "label": "M  PIERRE RICHARD",
  "linxoId": "845811337",
  "cozyCategoryId": "400110",
  "cozyCategoryProba": 0.9323,
  "metadata": {
    "dateImport": "2018-03-09T09:23:40.075Z",
    "version": 1
  },
  "originalBankLabel": "VIR RECU    5383518660S DE: M  PIERRE RICHARD J MOTIF: Cascade REF: NOT PROVIDED",
  "type": "transfer"
}
```

## `io.cozy.bank.balancehistories`

This doctype stores a year of daily balances :

- `year`: {number} - The year of the balances
- `balances`: {object} - A day (YYYY-MM-DD format) / balance (number) map

### Relationships

- `account`: {object} - The associated account

### Example

```
{
  "_id": "f1aacd3254509687c07e48279b42cd50",
  "year": 2018,
  "balances": {
    "2018-01-01": 8000,
    "2018-01-02": 8000.42,
    "2018-01-03": 1337
  },
  "metadata": {
    "version": 1
  },
  "relationships": {
    "account": {
      "data": {
        "_id": "f1aacd3254509687c07e48279b42f3de",
        "_type": "io.cozy.bank.accounts"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## io.cozy.bank.recurrence

Stores a recurrence group information. Those objects are created by the recurrence service
that tries to find recurring transactions. Transactions that are found as recurrent have
a HasOne relationship to a `io.cozy.bank.recurrence` object.

- `manualLabel`: {string} - The year of the balances
- `automaticLabel`: {string} - A day (YYYY-MM-DD format) / balance (number) map
- `amounts`: {Array<number>} - Amounts that can be matched to the recurrence (come from the transactions)
- `categoryIds`: {Array<string>} - Category ids of the transactions that have been linked
- `status`: {Enum&lt;"ongoing","finished">} - A recurrence can be stated as "finished" if transactions should not longer match it. For example if a telco contract has finished.
- `stats`: {Object} - Statistics used during matching
- `stats.deltas.median` : Median time distance in days between operations. For example, for a monthly recurrence, this should be 30.
- `latestDate`:  {String} Date of the last transaction that is part of the recurrence. This is used to compute the next occurence of the recurrence
- `accounts`: {Array<string>} Ids of the bank accounts that have participated to the recurrence. This is used to compute planned transactions.

## io.cozy.bank.groups

Groups banks accounts together.

- `label`: {string} - Name of the group
- `accounts`: {Array} - Ids of io.cozy.bank.accounts

### Exemple

```json
 {
  "_id": "2a432e54822e7caeed02367a6e1f5739",
  "accounts": [
    "cla4",
    "gen3"
  ],
  "id": "2a432e54822e7caeed02367a6e1f5739",
  "label": "My Group"
}
```


## io.cozy.bank.recipients

Used to make a transfert

- `vendorAccountId` : io.cozy.bank.accounts.vendorId

### Exemple

```json
{
  "_id": "recipient_internal_1",
  "category": "internal",
  "bankName": "Caisse d'Épargne",
  "bic": "CEPAFRPP627",
  "label": "Isabelle checkings",
  "currency": "EUR",
  "iban": "FR3330002005500000157841Z27",
  "vendorLastUpdate": "2020-02-12 16:12:58",
  "vendorAccountId": 1,
  "deleted": null
}
```

Commit message:

docs: Add `latestAmount` in io.cozy.bank.recurrence

docs/io.cozy.bank.md, after:

[Table of contents](README.md#table-of-contents)

# Cozy Bank doctypes

Cozy can stores and manipulate bank related datas, distributed across several doctypes.

## `io.cozy.bank.settings`

This doctype store informations about Bank application settings. There is only one document, by default:

```
{
  notifications: {
    amountMax: {
      enable: false,
      value: 30
    }
  }
}
```

## `io.cozy.bank.accounts`

This doctypes stores informations about a Bank account:

- `label`: {string} - The bank account label (e.g. _John Doe Bank Account_)
- `institutionLabel`: {string} - The financial institution name the bank account belongs to
- `balance`: {number} - The current account balance
- `type`: {string} - The account type in the list `['none', 'bank', 'cash', 'asset', 'credit card', 'liability']`
- `number`: {string} - The bank account number in its institution
- `iban`: {string} - The bank account international identifier
- `serviceID`: {number} - In case of external service used to import transactions, this key can stores the service's account ID; can be `undefined` is the account isn't managed by any external service
- `vendorId`: {string} - Id of the bank account on the vendor side
- `loan`: {Object} - Specific properties for loan accounts. Will be undefined for all other account types
  - `contactName`: {string} - The name of the contact in the credit institution
  - `totalAmount`: {number} - The total amount of the loan
  - `availableAmount`: {number} - The currently available amount
  - `usedAmount`: {number} - The amount already used
  - `subscriptionDate`: {date} - The date on which the loan has been subscribed
  - `maturityDate`: {date} - The end date of the loan
  - `nextPaymentAmount`: {number} - The amount of the next payment
  - `nextPaymentDate`: {date} - The date of the next payment
  - `rate`: {number} - The loan rate (between 0 and 100)
  - `nbPaymentsLeft`: {number} - The number of remaining payments
  - `nbPaymentsDone`: {number} - The number of payments made
  - `nbPaymentsTotal`: {number} - The total number of payments
  - `lastPaymentAmount`: {number} - The amount of the last payment
  - `lastPaymentDate`: {date} - The date of the last payment
  - `accountLabel`: {string} - The loan account label
  - `insuranceLabel`: {string} - The insurance label
  - `duration`: {number} - The loan duration in months
- `relationships`: {Object} - Relationships to other documents
  - `connection`: {`HasOne<io.cozy.accounts>`} The account used to retrieve this document. This is used by Harvest to be able to edit an `io.cozy.bank.accounts`
    through the "Configuration" tab of an `io.cozy.accounts`.
  - `checkingsAccount`: {`HasOne<io.cozy.bank.accounts>`} - In case of a credit card account, links to the bankaccount on which all the transactions will be debited
     at the end of the month
  - `owners`: {`HasMany<io.cozy.contacts>`} - List of owners for this account

### Example

```
{
  "_id": "2165d9a310deadbeeffc08d54c45102",
  "balance": 1337.73,
  "institutionLabel": "Société Générale (Particuliers)",
  "label": "Livret Dévelop. Durable (x1337)",
  "linxoId": "123456",
  "metadata": {
    "version": 1
  },
  "number": "03791 00048085818",
  "shortLabel": "Livret Dévelop. Durable",
  "type": "Savings",
  "relationships": {
    "connection": {
      "_id": "2165d9a310deadbeeffc08d54c45404",
      "_type": "io.cozy.accounts"
    }
  }
}
```

## `io.cozy.bank.accounts.stats`

This doctype stores aggregated data about bank accounts:

- `periodStart`: {date} - The start of the reference period
- `periodEnd`: {date} - The end of the reference period
- `income`: {number} - The average income on the reference period
- `additionalIncome`: {number} - The average additional income on the reference period
- `mortgage`: {number} - The average mortgage expense on the reference period
- `loans`: {number} - The average total loans expense on the reference period
- `fixedCharges`: {number} - The average fixed charges on the reference period
- `currency`: {string} - A 3 uppercased chars defining the currecny used for the transaction as stated in [ISO4217](https://www.currency-iso.org/en/home/tables/table-a1.html)

### Relationships

- `account`: {object} - The associated account

### Example

```
{
  "_id": "f1aacd3254509687c07e48279b42cd50",
  "periodStart": "2019-03-01T00:00:00",
  "periodEnd": "2019-06-30T23:59:59",
  "income": 2345.67,
  "additionalIncome": 123.45,
  "mortgage": 567.89,
  "loans": 678.9,
  "fixedCharges": 234.56,
  "currency": "EUR",
  "relationships": {
    "account": {
      "data": {
        "_id": "f1aacd3254509687c07e48279b42f3de",
        "_type": "io.cozy.bank.accounts"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## `io.cozy.bank.operations`

This doctype stors informations about a bank transaction:

- `label`: {string} - The label describing the transaction
- `type`: {string} - A type in the list : `['none', 'credit card', 'cash', 'check', 'transfer', 'internal transfer', 'debit card', 'deposit', 'financial fee', 'direct debit']`
- `date`: {date} - The debit/credit date of the transaction on which the account is debited/credited. Is different from the `realizationDate` with deferred debit cards
- `realisationDate`: {date} - The realization date of the transaction on which the operation really occured
- `applicationDate`: {string} - The date the transaction is affected to, after a manual modification
- `dateOperation`: {date} - The date the transaction is registered in the account
- `dateImport`: {date} - The date the transaction is imported (can differ of the date of creation of the document as the import can be done by an external service)
- `amount`: {number} - The amount of the transaction
- `currency`: {string} - A 3 uppercased chars defining the currecny used for the transaction as stated in [ISO4217](https://www.currency-iso.org/en/home/tables/table-a1.html)
- `automaticCategoryId`: {string} - A category that apply to the transaction and is automatically calculated. This property should be hydrated by the connector. See the « categories » section below to know more about categories
- `manualCategoryId`: {string} - A category that apply to the transaction and is manually selected by the user
- `cozyCategoryId`: {string} - A category found by Cozy
- `cozyCategoryProba`: {number} - The probability of Cozy category
- `localCategoryId`: {string} - A category found by Cozy, based on the user recategorization habits
- `localCategoryProba`: {number} - The probability of local category
- `account`: {identifier} - The related account id the transaction belongs to
- `bills`: {array[<io.cozy.bills._id>]} - List of bills id.
- `reimbursements`: {array[<io.cozy.bills._id>]} - List of bills id.
- `creditOperations`: {array[<io.cozy.bank.operations._id>]} - List of credit operations id
- `debitOperations`: {array[<io.cozy.bank.operations._id>]} - List of debit operations id
- `parent`: {\_id} - In case of a split transaction, the one refers the global transaction the split one belongs to
- `vendorId`: {string} - Id of the transaction on the vendor side
- `vendorAccountId`: {string} - Id of the transaction's account on the vendor side

For the dates, any string or integer which can be interpreted by new Date(date) is possible but the
best the result of Date.toString() -> like 'Fri Mar 09 2018 19:04:40 GMT+0100 (CET)' which contains
the time zones.

### Categories

There are up to four categories that can be assigned to a `io.cozy.bank.operations` document. But there is only one that a connector have to set when retrieving the transactions from a bank: `automaticCategoryId`. This property have to be one of the categories ID listed [here](https://github.com/cozy/cozy-banks/blob/master/src/ducks/categories/tree.json). If you want to see more human labels, you can check the translations of each label in [english](https://github.com/cozy/cozy-banks/blob/master/src/locales/en.json) or [french](https://github.com/cozy/cozy-banks/blob/master/src/locales/fr.json).

Other category properties are to be set by other sources: the user or Cozy Banks services.

### Example

```
{
  "_id": "f0426fdeadbeef55755ee7f4d6555",
  "account": "15fb6402426bcdeadbeeffd5f4587bb",
  "amount": 10,
  "automaticCategoryId": "400110",
  "currency": "EUR",
  "date": "2017-09-22 00:00:00+01:00",
  "dateOperation": null,
  "label": "M  PIERRE RICHARD",
  "linxoId": "845811337",
  "cozyCategoryId": "400110",
  "cozyCategoryProba": 0.9323,
  "metadata": {
    "dateImport": "2018-03-09T09:23:40.075Z",
    "version": 1
  },
  "originalBankLabel": "VIR RECU    5383518660S DE: M  PIERRE RICHARD J MOTIF: Cascade REF: NOT PROVIDED",
  "type": "transfer"
}
```

## `io.cozy.bank.balancehistories`

This doctype stores a year of daily balances :

- `year`: {number} - The year of the balances
- `balances`: {object} - A day (YYYY-MM-DD format) / balance (number) map

### Relationships

- `account`: {object} - The associated account

### Example

```
{
  "_id": "f1aacd3254509687c07e48279b42cd50",
  "year": 2018,
  "balances": {
    "2018-01-01": 8000,
    "2018-01-02": 8000.42,
    "2018-01-03": 1337
  },
  "metadata": {
    "version": 1
  },
  "relationships": {
    "account": {
      "data": {
        "_id": "f1aacd3254509687c07e48279b42f3de",
        "_type": "io.cozy.bank.accounts"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## io.cozy.bank.recurrence

Stores a recurrence group information. Those objects are created by the recurrence service
that tries to find recurring transactions. Transactions that are found as recurrent have
a HasOne relationship to a `io.cozy.bank.recurrence` object.

- `manualLabel`: {string} - The year of the balances
- `automaticLabel`: {string} - A day (YYYY-MM-DD format) / balance (number) map
- `amounts`: {Array<number>} - Amounts that can be matched to the recurrence (come from the transactions)
- `categoryIds`: {Array<string>} - Category ids of the transactions that have been linked
- `status`: {Enum&lt;"ongoing","finished">} - A recurrence can be stated as "finished" if transactions should not longer match it. For example if a telco contract has finished.
- `stats`: {Object} - Statistics used during matching
- `stats.deltas.median` : Median time distance in days between operations. For example, for a monthly recurrence, this should be 30.
- `latestDate`:  {String} Date of the last transaction that is part of the recurrence. This is used to compute the next occurence of the recurrence
- `latestAmount`:  {number} Amount of the last transaction that is part of the recurrence.
- `accounts`: {Array<string>} Ids of the bank accounts that have participated to the recurrence. This is used to compute planned transactions.

## io.cozy.bank.groups

Groups banks accounts together.

- `label`: {string} - Name of the group
- `accounts`: {Array} - Ids of io.cozy.bank.accounts

### Exemple

```json
 {
  "_id": "2a432e54822e7caeed02367a6e1f5739",
  "accounts": [
    "cla4",
    "gen3"
  ],
  "id": "2a432e54822e7caeed02367a6e1f5739",
  "label": "My Group"
}
```


## io.cozy.bank.recipients

Used to make a transfert

- `vendorAccountId` : io.cozy.bank.accounts.vendorId

### Exemple

```json
{
  "_id": "recipient_internal_1",
  "category": "internal",
  "bankName": "Caisse d'Épargne",
  "bic": "CEPAFRPP627",
  "label": "Isabelle checkings",
  "currency": "EUR",
  "iban": "FR3330002005500000157841Z27",
  "vendorLastUpdate": "2020-02-12 16:12:58",
  "vendorAccountId": 1,
  "deleted": null
}
```
