- [Cozy OAuth clients doctype](#cozy-oauth-clients-doctype)
  - [`io.cozy.oauth.clients`](#iocozyoauthclients)

# Cozy OAuth clients doctype

## `io.cozy.oauth.clients`

The `io.cozy.oauth.clients` doctype contain the OAuth clients informations used in
the OAuth2 flow.

- `client_id` {string}: ClientID, part of the official OAuth Standard
- `client_secret` {string}: ClientSecret, part of the official OAuth Standard,
  generated by the cozy-stack
- `client_secret_expires_at`: {timestamp}: When the client secret will expire
  and will not be usable anymore. By default, it won't expire
- `registration_access_token` {string}: Token used for the web instance
  onboarding
- `allow_login_scope` {bool}: Allow (or not) a login scope generation
- `redirect_uris` {[]string}: List of URIs used for redirection after login,
  declared by the client. Part of the official OAuth Standard
- `grant_types` {[]string}: Kind of grant for the client (`authorization_code` or
  `refresh_token`). Part of the official OAuth Standard
- `response_types` {[]string}: Kind of responses (`code`). Part of the official
  OAuth Standard
- `client_name` {string}: Client name
- `client_kind` {string}: Client kind (mobile, browser, desktop, ...). Optional.
- `client_uri` {string}: Client URI. Optional.
- `logo_uri` {string}: Client logo URI. Optional
- `policy_uri` {string}: Client policy URI. Optional
- `software_id` {string}: Client software identifier
- `software_version` {string}: Client software version. Optional
- `notifications` {object}: Notifications parameters for the client.
- `notifications_platform` {string}: Notification platform (android, iOS, ...).
  Optional, declared by the client
- `notifications_device_token`: {string}: Token for the notifications. Optional,
  declared by the client.
- `synchronized_at`: {string}: Date of the last synchronization. Used by
  settings.
- `onboarding_*` {string}: `onboarding_secret`, `onboarding_app`, `onboarding_permissions` & `onboarding_state` are used for an onboarding straight on the mobile.

The [official documentation](https://docs.cozy.io/en/cozy-stack/auth/#what-about-oauth2) give a more in-depth overview of the OAuth client authorization workflow.
