docs/io.cozy.files.md, before:

[Table of contents](README.md#table-of-contents)

# Cozy Files doctype

## `io.cozy.files`

The `io.cozy.files` doctype is used for both the files and directories.

### Folder

For a folder, its attributes are:

- `type`: {string} always `directory`
- `name`: {string} the directory name
- `path`: {string} the path to this directory, which is the path of its parent, then `/`, then its name
- `created_at`: {timestamp} the date of the creation of this directory given by the client
- `updated_at`: {timestamp} the date of the last update of this directory given by the client
- `tags`: {array of strings} a list of tags

It also has a relationship with its `parent` in the JSON-API representation, and another called `data` with the files and directory inside it.

### Files

The attributes of a file are:

- `type`: {string} always `file`
- `name`: {string} the file name
- `trashed`: {bool} true if the file is in the trash
- `md5sum`: {string} the checksum of its content, computed with the MD5 algorithm
- `created_at`: {date} the date of the creation of this file given by the client
- `updated_at`: {date} the date of the last update of this file given by the client
- `tags`: {array of strings} a list of tags
- `size`: {number} the size of its content, in bytes
- `executable`: {bool} true is the file has the executable bit on UNIX (`chmod +x`)
- `class`: {string} a class in the list: `['image', 'document', 'audio', 'video', 'text', 'binary']`
- `mime`: {string} the full mime-type
- `metadata`: {map} an optional map of metadata, with for example:
    - `width`: {number}
    - `height`: {number}
    - `datetime`: {date} : date in original image file metadata
    - `gps`: {map} : localization metadata with the following attributes
        - `lat`: {float}: latitude
        - `long`: {float}: longitude
        - `city`: {string}: nearest city (optional)
        - `zip`: {string}: postal code of the nearest city (optional)
        - `country`: {string}: name of the associated country if any (optional)
    - `persons`: {array}: the maps can have the following attributes (optional)
        - `name`: {string}: then name of the tagged person on the photo
        - `created_at`: {date}: date of creation of the tag
        - `x`: {float}: x coordinate in the photo where the person is
        - `y`: {float}: y coordinate in the photo where the person is

It also has a relationship with its `parent` in the JSON-API representation.

For an `image`, there are 3 links to thumbnails: `small`, `medium`, and `large`.

### References

It's possible to link a file or a folder to another document.
It's called [a reference](https://docs.cozy.io/en/cozy-stack/references-docs-in-vfs/).
It appears in the JSON-API representation as a `refererenced_by` relationship.

### CozyMetadata

The `io.cozy.files` doctype has [the standard `cozyMetadata`](https://docs.cozy.io/en/cozy-doctypes/docs/README/#document-metadata), but with some more fields:

- `createdOn`: {string} the instance URL on which the file has created (useful if the file is shared between several cozy instances)
- `uploadedAt`: {date} the server date/time of the last upload (when the content was changed)
- `uploadedOn`: {string} the instance URL on which the file content was changed the last time
- `uploadedBy`: {map} information on which app has made the last upload
    - `slug`: {string} the slug of the application that has made the upload
    - `version`: {string} the version number of this application
    - `oauthClient`: {map} if the upload was made by an OAuth Client, information about it (`id`, `name`, and `kind`)

### Example (JSON-API format)

```json
{
  "data": {
    "type": "io.cozy.files",
    "id": "9152d568-7e7c-11e6-a377-37cbfb190b4b",
    "meta": {
      "rev": "3-0e6d5b72"
    },
    "attributes": {
      "type": "file",
      "name": "sunset.jpg",
      "trashed": false,
      "md5sum": "ODZmYjI2OWQxOTBkMmM4NQo=",
      "created_at": "2018-01-02T20:38:04Z",
      "updated_at": "2019-06-12T12:38:04Z",
      "tags": [],
      "metadata": {
        "datetime": "2018-01-02T20:38:04Z",
        "height": 1080,
        "width": 1920
      },
      "size": 12,
      "executable": false,
      "class": "image",
      "mime": "image/jpg",
      "cozyMetadata": {
        "doctypeVersion": 1,
        "metadataVersion": 1,
        "createdAt": "2019-06-11T01:02:03Z",
        "createdByApp": "flickr",
        "createdByAppVersion": "1.2.3",
        "createdOn": "https://alice.cozy.example",
        "updatedAt": "2019-06-12T12:40:06Z",
        "updatedByApps": [
          {
            "slug": "flickr",
            "date": "2019-06-11T01:02:03Z",
            "version": "1.2.3",
            "instance": "https://alice.cozy.example"
          },
          {
            "slug": "cozy-desktop",
            "date": "2019-06-12T12:40:06Z",
            "version": "3.13.2",
            "instance": "https://alice.cozy.example"
          }
        ],
        "uploadedAt": "2019-06-11T20:34:56Z",
        "uploadedOn": "https://alice.cozy.example",
        "uploadedBy": {
          "slug": "cozy-desktop",
          "version": "3.13.2",
          "oauthClient": {
            "id": "9aaa6886-8b69-11e9-8412-b7855fb3838f",
            "kind": "desktop",
            "name": "Cozy Drive - mac book pro d'Alice"
          }
        },
        "sourceAccount": "07b49550-8b60-11e9-bb7e-87717e829039",
        "sourceAccountIdentifier": "157ae784"
      }
    },
    "relationships": {
      "parent": {
        "links": {
          "related": "/files/fce1a6c0-dfc5-11e5-8d1a-1f854d4aaf81"
        },
        "data": {
          "type": "io.cozy.files",
          "id": "fce1a6c0-dfc5-11e5-8d1a-1f854d4aaf81"
        }
      },
      "referenced_by": {
        "links": {
          "self": "/files/fce1a6c0-dfc5-11e5-8d1a-1f854d4aaf81/relationships/references"
        },
        "data": [
          {
            "type": "io.cozy.albums",
            "id": "94375086-e2e2-11e6-81b9-5bc0b9dd4aa4"
          }
        ]
      }
    },
    "links": {
      "self": "/files/9152d568-7e7c-11e6-a377-37cbfb190b4b",
      "small": "/files/9152d568-7e7c-11e6-a377-37cbfb190b4b/thumbnails/0f9cda56674282ac/small",
      "medium": "/files/9152d568-7e7c-11e6-a377-37cbfb190b4b/thumbnails/0f9cda56674282ac/medium",
      "large": "/files/9152d568-7e7c-11e6-a377-37cbfb190b4b/thumbnails/0f9cda56674282ac/large"
    }
  }
}
```

### Shortcuts

Shortcuts (or hyperlinks) are a special type of files. They are served with the
`application/internet-shortcut` mime-type, they have a `.url` extension, and
respect the [URL file
format](http://www.lyberty.com/encyc/articles/tech/dot_url_format_-_an_unofficial_guide.html).

They can have `metadata`:

- `sharing.status` will be set if the link can be used to open a sharing. 2
  values are possible: `new` and `seen`, depending on whether the link
  has been opened.
- `target.cozyMetadata.instance` is set to the cozy instance when relevant
  (mostly sharing and internal links)
- `target._type` is the doctype of the destination of the link (when the link
  goes to a sharing or document inside a cozy)
- `target.mime` is the mime-type of the destination of the link (when it is a
  file)
- `target.app` is the slug of the destination app (internal links only).

#### Example (JSON format)

```json
{
  "_id": "629fb233be550a21174ac8e19f0043af",
  "_rev": "1-61c7804bdb4f9f8dae5a363cb9a30dd8",
  "type": "file",
  "name": "sunset.jpg.url",
  "dir_id": "629fb233be550a21174ac8e19f003e4a",
  "trashed": false,
  "md5sum": "vfEMDpJShs8QeIlsDmw9VA==",
  "created_at": "2020-02-10T20:38:04Z",
  "updated_at": "2020-02-10T20:38:04Z",
  "tags": [],
  "metadata": {
    "sharing": {
      "status": "new"
    },
    "target": {
      "cozyMetadata": {
        "instance": "https://alice.cozy.example/"
      },
      "_type": "io.cozy.files",
      "mime": "image/jpg"
    }
  },
  "size": 62,
  "executable": false,
  "class": "shortcut",
  "mime": "application/shortcut",
  "cozyMetadata": {
    "doctypeVersion": 1,
    "metadataVersion": 1,
    "createdAt": "2020-02-10T20:38:04Z",
    "createdOn": "https://bob.cozy.example/",
    "updatedAt": "2020-02-10T20:38:04Z",
    "uploadedAt": "2020-02-10T20:38:04Z",
    "uploadedOn": "https://bob.cozy.example/"
  }
}
```

## `io.cozy.files.versions`

The `io.cozy.files.versions` is used to track old versions of a file content,
when files versioning is enabled. The attributes of a version are:

- `size`: {number} the size of its content, in bytes
- `md5sum`: {string} the checksum of its content, computed with the MD5 algorithm
- `updated_at`: {date} the date of the last update of this file given by the client
- `tags`: {array of strings} a list of tags
- `metadata`: {map} an optional map of metadata.

It also has the same `cozyMetadata` that a file (including the `uploaded*`
fields), and a relationship to the versioned file.

### Example (CouchDB format)

```json
{
  "_id": "9152d568-7e7c-11e6-a377-37cbfb190b4b/3-0e6d5b72",
  "_rev": "1-782839bf19cf4edbc29b82f77b28482f",
  "updated_at": "2019-06-12T12:38:04Z",
  "size": "12",
  "md5sum": "ODZmYjI2OWQxOTBkMmM4NQo=",
  "tags": [],
  "metadata": {
    "datetime": "2018-01-02T20:38:04Z",
    "height": 1080,
    "width": 1920
  },
  "cozyMetadata": {
    "doctypeVersion": "1",
    "metadataVersion": 1,
    "createdAt": "2019-06-11T20:34:56Z",
    "createdOn": "https://alice.cozy.example",
    "updatedAt": "2019-06-11T20:34:56Z",
    "uploadedAt": "2019-06-11T20:34:56Z",
    "uploadedBy": {
      "slug": "drive"
    },
    "uploadedOn": "https://alice.cozy.example"
  },
  "relationships": {
    "file": {
      "data": {
        "_id": "9152d568-7e7c-11e6-a377-37cbfb190b4b",
        "_type": "io.cozy.files"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Commit message:

feat: Add file icon metadata

docs/io.cozy.files.md, after:

[Table of contents](README.md#table-of-contents)

# Cozy Files doctype

## `io.cozy.files`

The `io.cozy.files` doctype is used for both the files and directories.

### Folder

For a folder, its attributes are:

- `type`: {string} always `directory`
- `name`: {string} the directory name
- `path`: {string} the path to this directory, which is the path of its parent, then `/`, then its name
- `created_at`: {timestamp} the date of the creation of this directory given by the client
- `updated_at`: {timestamp} the date of the last update of this directory given by the client
- `tags`: {array of strings} a list of tags

It also has a relationship with its `parent` in the JSON-API representation, and another called `data` with the files and directory inside it.

### Files

The attributes of a file are:

- `type`: {string} always `file`
- `name`: {string} the file name
- `trashed`: {bool} true if the file is in the trash
- `md5sum`: {string} the checksum of its content, computed with the MD5 algorithm
- `created_at`: {date} the date of the creation of this file given by the client
- `updated_at`: {date} the date of the last update of this file given by the client
- `tags`: {array of strings} a list of tags
- `size`: {number} the size of its content, in bytes
- `executable`: {bool} true is the file has the executable bit on UNIX (`chmod +x`)
- `class`: {string} a class in the list: `['image', 'document', 'audio', 'video', 'text', 'binary']`
- `mime`: {string} the full mime-type
- `metadata`: {map} an optional map of metadata, with for example:
    - `width`: {number}
    - `height`: {number}
    - `datetime`: {date} : date in original image file metadata
    - `gps`: {map} : localization metadata with the following attributes
        - `lat`: {float}: latitude
        - `long`: {float}: longitude
        - `city`: {string}: nearest city (optional)
        - `zip`: {string}: postal code of the nearest city (optional)
        - `country`: {string}: name of the associated country if any (optional)
    - `persons`: {array}: the maps can have the following attributes (optional)
        - `name`: {string}: then name of the tagged person on the photo
        - `created_at`: {date}: date of creation of the tag
        - `x`: {float}: x coordinate in the photo where the person is
        - `y`: {float}: y coordinate in the photo where the person is
    - `icon`: {string} : A small svg file or the URL of an image to use as icon for this file

It also has a relationship with its `parent` in the JSON-API representation.

For an `image`, there are 3 links to thumbnails: `small`, `medium`, and `large`.

### References

It's possible to link a file or a folder to another document.
It's called [a reference](https://docs.cozy.io/en/cozy-stack/references-docs-in-vfs/).
It appears in the JSON-API representation as a `refererenced_by` relationship.

### CozyMetadata

The `io.cozy.files` doctype has [the standard `cozyMetadata`](https://docs.cozy.io/en/cozy-doctypes/docs/README/#document-metadata), but with some more fields:

- `createdOn`: {string} the instance URL on which the file has created (useful if the file is shared between several cozy instances)
- `uploadedAt`: {date} the server date/time of the last upload (when the content was changed)
- `uploadedOn`: {string} the instance URL on which the file content was changed the last time
- `uploadedBy`: {map} information on which app has made the last upload
    - `slug`: {string} the slug of the application that has made the upload
    - `version`: {string} the version number of this application
    - `oauthClient`: {map} if the upload was made by an OAuth Client, information about it (`id`, `name`, and `kind`)

### Example (JSON-API format)

```json
{
  "data": {
    "type": "io.cozy.files",
    "id": "9152d568-7e7c-11e6-a377-37cbfb190b4b",
    "meta": {
      "rev": "3-0e6d5b72"
    },
    "attributes": {
      "type": "file",
      "name": "sunset.jpg",
      "trashed": false,
      "md5sum": "ODZmYjI2OWQxOTBkMmM4NQo=",
      "created_at": "2018-01-02T20:38:04Z",
      "updated_at": "2019-06-12T12:38:04Z",
      "tags": [],
      "metadata": {
        "datetime": "2018-01-02T20:38:04Z",
        "height": 1080,
        "width": 1920
      },
      "size": 12,
      "executable": false,
      "class": "image",
      "mime": "image/jpg",
      "cozyMetadata": {
        "doctypeVersion": 1,
        "metadataVersion": 1,
        "createdAt": "2019-06-11T01:02:03Z",
        "createdByApp": "flickr",
        "createdByAppVersion": "1.2.3",
        "createdOn": "https://alice.cozy.example",
        "updatedAt": "2019-06-12T12:40:06Z",
        "updatedByApps": [
          {
            "slug": "flickr",
            "date": "2019-06-11T01:02:03Z",
            "version": "1.2.3",
            "instance": "https://alice.cozy.example"
          },
          {
            "slug": "cozy-desktop",
            "date": "2019-06-12T12:40:06Z",
            "version": "3.13.2",
            "instance": "https://alice.cozy.example"
          }
        ],
        "uploadedAt": "2019-06-11T20:34:56Z",
        "uploadedOn": "https://alice.cozy.example",
        "uploadedBy": {
          "slug": "cozy-desktop",
          "version": "3.13.2",
          "oauthClient": {
            "id": "9aaa6886-8b69-11e9-8412-b7855fb3838f",
            "kind": "desktop",
            "name": "Cozy Drive - mac book pro d'Alice"
          }
        },
        "sourceAccount": "07b49550-8b60-11e9-bb7e-87717e829039",
        "sourceAccountIdentifier": "157ae784"
      }
    },
    "relationships": {
      "parent": {
        "links": {
          "related": "/files/fce1a6c0-dfc5-11e5-8d1a-1f854d4aaf81"
        },
        "data": {
          "type": "io.cozy.files",
          "id": "fce1a6c0-dfc5-11e5-8d1a-1f854d4aaf81"
        }
      },
      "referenced_by": {
        "links": {
          "self": "/files/fce1a6c0-dfc5-11e5-8d1a-1f854d4aaf81/relationships/references"
        },
        "data": [
          {
            "type": "io.cozy.albums",
            "id": "94375086-e2e2-11e6-81b9-5bc0b9dd4aa4"
          }
        ]
      }
    },
    "links": {
      "self": "/files/9152d568-7e7c-11e6-a377-37cbfb190b4b",
      "small": "/files/9152d568-7e7c-11e6-a377-37cbfb190b4b/thumbnails/0f9cda56674282ac/small",
      "medium": "/files/9152d568-7e7c-11e6-a377-37cbfb190b4b/thumbnails/0f9cda56674282ac/medium",
      "large": "/files/9152d568-7e7c-11e6-a377-37cbfb190b4b/thumbnails/0f9cda56674282ac/large"
    }
  }
}
```

### Shortcuts

Shortcuts (or hyperlinks) are a special type of files. They are served with the
`application/internet-shortcut` mime-type, they have a `.url` extension, and
respect the [URL file
format](http://www.lyberty.com/encyc/articles/tech/dot_url_format_-_an_unofficial_guide.html).

They can have `metadata`:

- `sharing.status` will be set if the link can be used to open a sharing. 2
  values are possible: `new` and `seen`, depending on whether the link
  has been opened.
- `target.cozyMetadata.instance` is set to the cozy instance when relevant
  (mostly sharing and internal links)
- `target._type` is the doctype of the destination of the link (when the link
  goes to a sharing or document inside a cozy)
- `target.mime` is the mime-type of the destination of the link (when it is a
  file)
- `target.app` is the slug of the destination app (internal links only).

#### Example (JSON format)

```json
{
  "_id": "629fb233be550a21174ac8e19f0043af",
  "_rev": "1-61c7804bdb4f9f8dae5a363cb9a30dd8",
  "type": "file",
  "name": "sunset.jpg.url",
  "dir_id": "629fb233be550a21174ac8e19f003e4a",
  "trashed": false,
  "md5sum": "vfEMDpJShs8QeIlsDmw9VA==",
  "created_at": "2020-02-10T20:38:04Z",
  "updated_at": "2020-02-10T20:38:04Z",
  "tags": [],
  "metadata": {
    "sharing": {
      "status": "new"
    },
    "target": {
      "cozyMetadata": {
        "instance": "https://alice.cozy.example/"
      },
      "_type": "io.cozy.files",
      "mime": "image/jpg"
    }
  },
  "size": 62,
  "executable": false,
  "class": "shortcut",
  "mime": "application/shortcut",
  "cozyMetadata": {
    "doctypeVersion": 1,
    "metadataVersion": 1,
    "createdAt": "2020-02-10T20:38:04Z",
    "createdOn": "https://bob.cozy.example/",
    "updatedAt": "2020-02-10T20:38:04Z",
    "uploadedAt": "2020-02-10T20:38:04Z",
    "uploadedOn": "https://bob.cozy.example/"
  }
}
```

## `io.cozy.files.versions`

The `io.cozy.files.versions` is used to track old versions of a file content,
when files versioning is enabled. The attributes of a version are:

- `size`: {number} the size of its content, in bytes
- `md5sum`: {string} the checksum of its content, computed with the MD5 algorithm
- `updated_at`: {date} the date of the last update of this file given by the client
- `tags`: {array of strings} a list of tags
- `metadata`: {map} an optional map of metadata.

It also has the same `cozyMetadata` that a file (including the `uploaded*`
fields), and a relationship to the versioned file.

### Example (CouchDB format)

```json
{
  "_id": "9152d568-7e7c-11e6-a377-37cbfb190b4b/3-0e6d5b72",
  "_rev": "1-782839bf19cf4edbc29b82f77b28482f",
  "updated_at": "2019-06-12T12:38:04Z",
  "size": "12",
  "md5sum": "ODZmYjI2OWQxOTBkMmM4NQo=",
  "tags": [],
  "metadata": {
    "datetime": "2018-01-02T20:38:04Z",
    "height": 1080,
    "width": 1920
  },
  "cozyMetadata": {
    "doctypeVersion": "1",
    "metadataVersion": 1,
    "createdAt": "2019-06-11T20:34:56Z",
    "createdOn": "https://alice.cozy.example",
    "updatedAt": "2019-06-11T20:34:56Z",
    "uploadedAt": "2019-06-11T20:34:56Z",
    "uploadedBy": {
      "slug": "drive"
    },
    "uploadedOn": "https://alice.cozy.example"
  },
  "relationships": {
    "file": {
      "data": {
        "_id": "9152d568-7e7c-11e6-a377-37cbfb190b4b",
        "_type": "io.cozy.files"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
