docs/io.cozy.settings.md, before:

- [Cozy settings doctype](#cozy-settings-doctype)
  - [`io.cozy.settings`](#iocozysettings)

# Cozy settings doctype

## `io.cozy.settings`

The `io.cozy.settings` doctype contains some documents. The most important one
is the stack instance-related settings.

### Instance settings document

- `_id`: `io.cozy.settings.instance`
- `tz`: {string} Timezone of the instance (ex: `Europe/Paris`)
- `email`: {string} Email of the instance
- `public_name`: {string} Public displayed name of the instance
- `default_redirection`: {string} Redirect to an app after login (ex: `drive/#/folder`)
- `colorScheme`: {'light'|'dark'|'auto} Used to manage the appearance of an app

### Bitwarden settings document

There is also a document with the stuff related to authentication and Bitwarden:

- `_id`: `io.cozy.settings.bitwarden`
- `passphrase_kdf`: {int} the type of KDF (0 for PBKDF2 with SHA256)
- `passphrase_kdf_iterations`: {int} the number of iterations to derive the master key from the password
- `passphrase_hint`: {string} a message displayed in bitwarden clients to help the user finding again their password
- `security_stamp`: {string} a value changed when the password is modified, to ensure that bitwarden clients don't send ciphers encrypted with the old password
- `key`: {string} the key used to encrypt ciphers, itself encrypted with the master key
- `public_key`: {string} the public key of the user for the cozy organization
- `private_key`: {string} the private key of the user for the cozy organization (encrypted)
- `encrypted_organization_key`: {string} the key to encrypt/decrypt the ciphers in the Cozy organization (encrypted)
- `organization_id`: {string} the identifier of the Cozy organization
- `collection_id`: {string} the identifier of the collection for the Cozy organization
- `equivalent_domains`: {array} an array with lists of equivalent domains
- `global_equivalent_domains`: {array} an array of integers used by bitwarden clients

### Display settings document

:warning: Deprecated because there is no direct stack route to use it.

- `_id`: `io.cozy.settings.display`
- `pushBanners`: {object} Relative attributes to push banners
  - `hideFlagshipApp`: {bool} Hide the push banner for Flagship App
  - `hidePassMobile`: {bool} Hide the push banner for Pass Mobile App

Commit message:

docs: Add phone_number field to instance settings doctype
The phone_number field has been added to the io.cozy.settings.instance doctype
to store user's phone number for profile information.

Relates to the implementation in profile view where users can now add
their phone number to their Cozy profile.

docs/io.cozy.settings.md, after:

- [Cozy settings doctype](#cozy-settings-doctype)
  - [`io.cozy.settings`](#iocozysettings)

# Cozy settings doctype

## `io.cozy.settings`

The `io.cozy.settings` doctype contains some documents. The most important one
is the stack instance-related settings.

### Instance settings document

- `_id`: `io.cozy.settings.instance`
- `tz`: {string} Timezone of the instance (ex: `Europe/Paris`)
- `email`: {string} Email of the instance
- `public_name`: {string} Public displayed name of the instance
- `phone_number`: {string} Phone number of the instance
- `default_redirection`: {string} Redirect to an app after login (ex: `drive/#/folder`)
- `colorScheme`: {'light'|'dark'|'auto} Used to manage the appearance of an app

### Bitwarden settings document

There is also a document with the stuff related to authentication and Bitwarden:

- `_id`: `io.cozy.settings.bitwarden`
- `passphrase_kdf`: {int} the type of KDF (0 for PBKDF2 with SHA256)
- `passphrase_kdf_iterations`: {int} the number of iterations to derive the master key from the password
- `passphrase_hint`: {string} a message displayed in bitwarden clients to help the user finding again their password
- `security_stamp`: {string} a value changed when the password is modified, to ensure that bitwarden clients don't send ciphers encrypted with the old password
- `key`: {string} the key used to encrypt ciphers, itself encrypted with the master key
- `public_key`: {string} the public key of the user for the cozy organization
- `private_key`: {string} the private key of the user for the cozy organization (encrypted)
- `encrypted_organization_key`: {string} the key to encrypt/decrypt the ciphers in the Cozy organization (encrypted)
- `organization_id`: {string} the identifier of the Cozy organization
- `collection_id`: {string} the identifier of the collection for the Cozy organization
- `equivalent_domains`: {array} an array with lists of equivalent domains
- `global_equivalent_domains`: {array} an array of integers used by bitwarden clients

### Display settings document

:warning: Deprecated because there is no direct stack route to use it.

- `_id`: `io.cozy.settings.display`
- `pushBanners`: {object} Relative attributes to push banners
  - `hideFlagshipApp`: {bool} Hide the push banner for Flagship App
  - `hidePassMobile`: {bool} Hide the push banner for Pass Mobile App
